---
layout: post
title: Welcome!
date: 2016-05-09
summary: 
comments: true
---
I'm Reinier van der Windt, a developer from the Netherlands.

I started developing when I was about 12 years old. Back then I mostly wrote text-based games in [QBasic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QBasic). A couple of years later a classmate got me into web development and I started fiddling around with websites.

At college I studied Information Technology for a year and learned some C++ and Java. A year later I made the switch to Communication and Multimedia Design, where I was introduced to PHP, .NET and learned a lot about front-end development, photography, audio/video editing and typography.

When I finished school, I started working for a company that worked on their own content management system written in Perl, so I had to learn Perl. Because I had experience with PHP (and I was the only one there), I also got the task to maintain their support system that was based on an open source project.

A couple of years later I left that company and started working for their sister company. I did some projects in PHP with Zend Framework, became a [Zend Certified Engineer](http://www.zend.com/en/yellow-pages/ZEND019194), did a couple of projects in Python with Django Framework and some front-end projects, until I was placed on a Proof of Concept (PoC) for a large telecom provider. This PoC had to be build with Angular and was basically a front-end application that was talking to a REST API. Here is were my love for Angular and JavaScript started.

I never really liked JavaScript, because I didn't like the fact that it runs in the browser. While working with Angular, my JavaScript skills improved rapidly and I really started to like it. Making my code run properly in all major browser suddenly became really easy. Now I use Angular whenever and wherever I can.

But, because I was doing front-end all the time, I really missed back-end development. So I started working on the API that I already used in the Angular application. The API was written in Python with Django Framework. At this moment I have been working on that API for a year now and I have learned many things. The API is quite huge and there are about 20 developers (give or take) working on it every day. In a team this size, communication and maintainability are two really important things. We are constantly refactoring parts of the API to make it more maintainable and more fun to work with.

In February 2016 I attended [NG-NL 2016](http://ng-nl.org/), a Dutch Angular conference with great speakers from the Angular Core team and the Angular community. The ending keynote was done by [Todd Motto](https://twitter.com/toddmotto). Todd gave a really inspirational speech about Jerry the Pirate, who sailed into the world of Angular and went through all the phases of development. He talked about comfort zones and questions developers ask themselves, like "Am I good enough to help others?" Todd ended the keynote and the conference with a statement to think about: "You don’t know code, until you can write about it." This keynote encouraged me to start writing about code. That's why I created this website.

On this website I will post articles about development. I will write about new tools that I discover and how to use them, and problems I encounter during my daily work. It will all be open source, so if you want to help to improve the articles, just create a fork :)